110 crop raster ep (#112)
esciencecenter-digital-skills/geospatial-python: episodes/08-crop-raster-data.md

## Align the CRS of the raster and the vector data

### Data loading

First, we will load the search results we saved in the data access episode.

```python
import pystac

# Load the search results

> items= pystac.ItemCollection.from_file("rhodes_sentinel-2.json")

Author: Thanks @Morrizzzzz, I just updated the data loading part to load from the downloaded files

```

The bounding box is in the form of `[minx, miny, maxx, maxy]`. Comparing this values with the raster image, we can see the magnitude of the bounding box coordinates does not match the coordinates of the raster image. This is because the two datasets have different coordinate reference systems (CRS). Therefore, we need to align the CRS of the two datasets before cropping the raster image.

Considering the raster image has larger data volume than the vector data, we will reproject the vector data to the CRS of the raster data. We can use the `to_crs` method:

```python
# Reproject
assets = assets.to_crs(visual.rio.crs)

# Check the new bounding box
assets.total_bounds
```

```output
array([ 564058.0257114, 3970719.4080227,  611743.71498815, 4035358.56340039])
```

Now the bounding box coordinates are updated. We can use the `clip_box` function to crop the raster image to the bounding box of the vector data:

```python
# Crop the raster with the bounding box
visual_clipbox = visual.rio.clip_box(*assets.total_bounds)

# Visualize the cropped image
visual_clipbox.plot.imshow()
```

![](fig/E08/visual_clip_box.png){alt="Clip box results"}

:::callout
## Code Tip

> Cropping a raster with a bounding box is a quick way to reduce the size of the raster data. Since this operation is based on min/max coordinates, it is not as expensive as cropping with polygons, which requires more accurate overlay operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cropping a raster with a bounding box is a quick way to reduce the size of the raster data. Since this operation is based on min/max coordinates, it is not as computational extensive as cropping with polygons, which requires more accurate overlay operations.
```
